sometimes I start recording a video and
then I realize it's got to be like five
or six different videos we started
talking about a bunch of related issues
last night and in this video let's try
to make it one to one-and-a-half topics
open rescue if I were to ask you what's
your position of hoping to rescue how do
you feel about open rescue we hadn't
even talked about this for last night
obviously we have a lot in common but
weird theoretically you're having some
kind of conversation you're getting
organized through some kind of activism
with with other vegans where do you
stand on open rescue it's not because
I'm just with you and I'm trying to
agree with you I really feel that I'm
against open rescue last night I told
you that when I first was looking at
your channel I saw your video against
violence basically about Gary Yourofsky
and I got into it with my ex-boyfriend
because he was Pro violence and Pro Open
rescue Pro going into you know breaking
and entering into slaughterhouses or
mink farms or whatever yeah and freeing
all the animals right right I was like
you can't do that you can't do that it's
wrong it's wrong so at the time you felt
that way but you didn't have like an
articulated explanation for why you
opposed I've assumed you were struggling
to try to find the words or find the
reasons for why there was this big gap
between you and your boyfriend right
yeah but basically it was just because I
was against violence you know I didn't
want there to be I didn't want begins to
engage in violence in order to spread
their beliefs it's just not its
interests me how much the word belief
comes up in this partly because
identifies no no no no no it's its ears
no nope I mean I think that is the way
the way to say it I mean what I'm
tempted to say is look I don't just
oppose open rescue I would have
convenience or out of some kind of
cynical political ploy that I really do
believe this is wrong it's the easiest
way as a matter of belief it's not like
in my heart of hearts I want to support
Gary Yourofsky or I want to support DXE
but I feel I can't because the
constraint of the law or that I feel I
have to compromise know in terms of my
real feelings my real
I really do oppose this and so one of
the challenges I've received from a
patreon commenter a patreon supporter
basically amounted to saying to me well
would you be on the wrong side of
history with something like the civil
rights struggle if this is a
hypothetical if if Martin Luther King
jr. or Malcolm X or the Black Panthers
we're proposing illegal methods damage
to property some kind of low-key semi
revolutionary
methods in the pursuit of the civil
rights struggle wouldn't you i pathetic
ly be on the wrong side of history if
you if you believe what you believe if
you're against this kind of violence
direct action everyone put it and I know
the challenges specifically stated in
terms of if you believe these laws are
unjust therefore you must feel it's just
to violate these laws and of course I do
feel that the laws against heard the
laws involved with animal agriculture
are wrong or and I think they need to
change however I'm not against laws
protecting people people's private
property I'm against laws that enforce
the law sorry look I mean you know I
think I think there are two approaches
to this walk either a thousand
approaches but two of two out of a
thousand um it's one thing to say I want
to win and it's another thing to say I
want to win by any means necessary
at all cost no matter how much violence
no matter what that's used I think the
vast majority of African American people
precisely the struggle they had to deal
with around the dinner table with their
own family members was well yes they
want civil rights that want advancement
for African American people that want to
prove assess African people
but everyone wants it their way you know
it means some people want it peacefully
democratically some people wanted to be
part of a communist revolution remember
communism was a popular mainstream
ideologies act then that had nuclear
bombs behind it and they could list off
their victories around the world at that
time you know there was a time when
communism was expanding and triumphant
not collapsing and pathetic and shameful
and they had all kinds of propaganda to
make it seem right so there were people
who wanted to be left-wing they're
people
to be violent that people wanted to be
an uprising of the factory workers and
there were people at the opposite
extreme people who are extreme moderates
or whatever we said no they wanted to
accomplish this through you know Civic
and civil action that was very much than
the balance the law so it's one thing to
say you want to win and it's another
thing to say I want to win my way or I
want to win in a manner that has the
lowest body count possible or with
absolutely zero deaths if possible what
have you and you know I've actually had
several different videos criticizing the
idea of justice and injustice and this
is this is 0.2 0.2 out of a thousand
year I think that the concept of justice
gets at the the Batman part of our brain
you know I think it's actually quite
dangerous when vegans are talking about
this as injustice and of then justifying
their own actions legal or illegal to to
redress that just it's really easy to
look at so these these examples your
boyfriend had in mind
okay there are minks in cages in a mink
farm they think that is an injustice
therefore justifies any or all what it
justifies whatever means that are
necessary justifies any or all actions
to liberate those minks
from the mink farm there are pigs living
in a crate maybe a wooden crate maybe a
steel cage inside a farm we perceive
that as injustice and then in our minds
again whether its cultural programming
or maybe human nature we think oh just
like Batman were now justified in
climbing on a rooftop kicking in a
window breaking down a door rescuing
someone I mean that the ethic of rescue
as a redress for injustice it's really
kind of it's evading all the all the
important issues here you know so III
completely I mean again I've said many
many times lately I think sympathy is
most important as an analytical tool I
sympathize with the way the other side
thinks through this issue so that I can
understand it better so that I can
relate to it better I understand how
appealing that is and I think for people
in our position like even you so again
whether it's around the dinner table
with your relatives or with your your
boyfriend or what have you I think it's
actually quite difficult to make a
principled argument for the modern
position it puts the onus on us as to
why we don't justify law-breaking again
whether that's because we want to win
but we want to win our way
I don't want veganism to become a
terrorist organization or if it's
because we actually do believe the laws
are just again there's a lot of lazy
thinking within vegan philosophy vegan
politics one of the most popular
arguments popularized by Kerry
Franchione a etc setter is that the
fundamental injustice here is property
that owning animals as property is evil
and we oppose that therefore therefore
therefore therefore right then we get a
bunch of a bunch of imputed assumptions
following after this idea that that
property ownership is a problem now that
puts me in a difficult position if I
want to say no I actually do believe in
property laws I actually believe they're
just and not unjust and I don't want to
challenge it that way I don't want to I
don't want to push you that way at all
now I've had relatively sophisticated
lengthy videos talking about that but in
direct contradiction to Gary fancy on
his position I've pointed out that what
he says about the nature of property in
modern Western society is just not true
there are special classes of property
such as owning an historical building
historically significant architecture
owning a work of art the way museums and
handle works of art they do own them
they are property they are bought and
sold they can be exchanged and loan
between museums but there are all kinds
of legal restrictions on this if you
talk to anyone who's lived in Europe
even some parts the United States they
may own a building as their property but
they don't have the right to repaint it
without going to the government's get
permission they have to get a permit
saying it's okay to make this window
larger or while making the window
enlarging the window is that gonna harm
the historic here they're building we
actually have all kinds of classes of
property that are very very well
protected and I don't I just do not
agree that abolishing the category of
property or saying that animals are not
property is the way out of this puzzle I
don't think that's the way to abolish
factory farms or greatly diminish the
significance of factory farming he
really wants it either because a lot
many of them probably have pets and
would they want people to be able to go
onto their property and take their pride
there
you know they're not really anybody's
property then you know anybody can take
your dog or cat somebody's backyard well
they're there they're phony solution is
to just talk about legal personhood that
once animals have equal rights which I
don't believe it I'm a vegan I don't
believe in equal rights for animals
I don't i actually again it's not like a
compromise of enforced into when I read
direct action ever was 40 year plan
their manifesto their set of principles
for the future I say oh no I actually
oppose almost every single point in that
plant I oppose the use of direct action
I oppose open rescue I oppose the law
breaking methods of old cetera et cetera
uh but I also oppose this idea that
every animal has a soul and that link to
that soul are legal rights and that they
have the right to live their plan is for
when they shut down a you know a factory
farm that taxpayers dollars should pay
for each and every one of those cows to
be put in the Farm Sanctuary and live
out it stays in in some kind of
imaginary happiness now again among I
follow that to you imagine cows are
happy unfactored burden before a Farm
Sanctuary either way I mean I I really
think that's that's a very problematic
set of set of assumptions too and I've
had videos addressed to that also so
there are many many different delusions
of misconceptions here and all right but
I mean in principle
what's wrong with open rescue and the
the open rescue mentality the set of
assumptions about justice and political
intervention and activism and action
that get attached to to open rescue I
grew up reading Batman I grew up
yeah and mostly the comic book of Batman
but it's it's true of many comic books
and many movies and many TV shows
there's a whole cultural thing about
this and you know one of the bedrock
assumptions about Batman is that he
solves problems with his fists he solves
problems by breaking through people's
windows kicking down the doors punching
people in the face and normally when
Batman bursts through the broken window
or bursts through the door he knows
who's good news evil he knows who he's
rescuing he's what I mean and uh I
because of the life I lived politically
in terms of humanitarian war
I have really had to think through the
implications of this even when I was in
Canada it's kind of another story I've
had to see the think think through the
implications of this mentality again and
again one of the most striking and
extreme examples being Cambodia Thailand
and Laos and the various do-gooders the
various charities often Christian
charities that try to rescue prostitutes
and a lot of these people really had the
the Batman mentality they assumed they
would show up and there's an evil pimp
holding a prostitute as the as his
captive and all they had to do was
rescue these prostitutes in this
situation and that they would be totally
justified you know and of course the
police are assumed to be evil which also
built into the Batman comic books
is that you know the the corruption and
inefficiency of the police which
justifies Batman's violence as
vigilantism and so on that's somehow you
know there is no legal way to address
these problems
and you know in the real world in
Cambodia and Laos you may show up you
may kick down the door and the pimp and
the prostitute have a child together
very very common scenario where the
prostitute has a kid with her pimp
they're boyfriend and girlfriend or
husband and wife and the kid is growing
up on the farm and the pimp of the
prostitute living in the city that would
be with an older prostitute obviously
when you talk about young prostitutes
who just were a lot of the kind of
salacious attention of foreigners is
directed you know very often they're
young women who made who exactly made
the decision to run away from to reject
the farm they grew up on and when you
try to rescue them by forcing them to go
back to the to the family farm but
they'll tell you to your face you know
they'll try to escape again as soon as
possible that's not the life they want
they've made this decision and so on and
even I mean this is a really dark but
I've done formal research on this this
is part of my own humanitarian work and
formal research I did including and I
was working as an editor for a non
fiction academic publisher I did read
real studies of this and I talked to
people in the humanitarian history doing
this work hands-on you can have
situations where the humanitarian agency
rescues a young person who was sold into
prostitution generally talking with a
teenager
delivers them back to the family that
sold them into prostitution and then
after they leave the family
sells them into prostitution again it
repeats the cycle so that is a case
where you can classify it as human
trafficking although again sometimes
it's just barely you don't know to what
extent there's the exclusion you know
the human reality of prostitution is
really murky really complex Minea comic
books don't address it it's not suitable
for a patrol Drance entertainments bad
treatment somehow just barely children's
entertainment despite the you know the
the nature of servant matter matter
dealt with here um you know the idea
that there is injustice out in this
world and just in just in identifying as
injustice just in saying this is an
injustice you therefore know what your
role is it therefore justifies your
violence your transgressing legal and
political norms and the you know the the
solution is self-evident this is an
injustice
therefore the opposite is justice
therefore by any means necessary you
know I think this is really bad in terms
of the process and the product in terms
of the outcomes in terms of what it
means for veganism and look I say this
now even if it's a non sequitur if I
were an employee of the FBI I would be
proud to enforce the law in this case
I don't want veganism to become a kind
of semi terrorist movement I don't think
this is legitimate activism it's not
because of some compromise have been
forced into if I were an employee the
FBI like the real me I was vegan I'm a
vegan activist with a vegan YouTube
channel but I had a job working with the
FBI I would look at this situation with
direct action everywhere and say yeah
damn right and for throw the book at
them enforce the law this is not what
vegan activism is supposed to be this is
not the future of the movement this is
not the way forward and I don't I don't
believe in or sympathize with or support
this whatsoever so I mean that that
really is my position on this now again
I mean like if someone asks you what is
the solution to prostitution the
mentality in looking at you know it's
going to be a multitude of policy
changes and and and difficult complex
questions but there's no simple sense in
which you can say well prostitution is
an injustice
or you know the pimps exploiting the
prostitutes is justice therefore let's
just send out you know the the
stormtroopers let's just send out men in
uniforms with guns to kick down a bunch
of doors and break in a bunch of windows
and violently you know you know separate
pin from prostitute and try to shut this
down and that's been tried all over the
world that's been done all over the
world of course in cases where the
majority of people opposed prostitution
we're in a situation where the vast
majority people support the pork
industry ninety eight percent of people
we're in a situation where the vast
majority people do not share their
fundamental ethical assumptions they
don't perceive this as an injustice they
perceive what the vegans are doing as an
injustice which changes things
perception matters and I mean it's
interesting with your discussion with
your boyfriend you were talking about
the Gary Yourofsky example Gary
Yourofsky has stole his criminal record
he still is on paper or a terrorist he
said chaos is an international terrorist
I believe in terms of his criminal
record because he went to Canada and he
tried to liberate all of the mink within
a mink farm at least that's more morally
coherent than doing what direct action
everywhere does because you know what
direct action just did they went into a
farm and they only chose to piglets then
right right word particularly
particularly cute and I think the point
was they were they felt they were
arresting them from particularly bad
circumstances at the farm to make
propaganda out of it right but I mean if
you believe in this why didn't they burn
down the farm yeah why didn't they open
all the cages that's a common slogan why
didn't they liberate all the pigs why
did you just try to get you know why
these two pigs what's what special about
them pretty obvious that it's for money
you know it's trying to get money for
their organization that's using these
two piglets you know they're cute you
can watch their progress from of course
when they first rescued them they were
good on the verge of death I think
you know like updating people on their
progress right right it's gonna get
sympathy it's gonna get attention and
yeah yeah in a way that's kind of also
taking advantage of their lives sure
their own benefit you know like of
course in a totally different way it's
not like DX is going to slaughter the
animals and make you you know make money
off of their their flesh but they're
making money off of them in a different
way yeah and I don't think they think
about it in that way at all I think they
think about it as justice great yeah and
they show up with a film crew you know
they are vigilantes with a film crew you
know and that is very different they
could have shown up with the the guys
holding the camera and all the film crew
stuff they could have instead that bull
cutters and then freeing as many pigs as
possible or burning down the farm they
could have been I don't support I hear
that either but there's this very
strange hypocritical you know fence
they're sitting on or fineline they're
walking and you know I mean that's even
built into this the term open rescue why
does it say open their point is that
it's over it's not covert they're not
wearing the mask they're not doing this
in a clandestine manner that they're
trying and in their forty year plan they
claim that in the future they want to
see presidential candidates being asked
at Q&A sessions by the media what's your
position on rescue I think you know they
kind of drank the kool-aid they don't
realize that - 99.9 percent of humanity
including me this is just laughable I'm
you know if there's a way forward for
veganism I don't think it can possibly
be breaking into people's you know
private property breaking into these
estates and stealing their hens and pigs
and you know stealing their their cows
it doesn't it does not make sense to me
I don't think that's a that's a question
that any presidential candidate is ever
gonna have trouble answering you know
now look you know there are a lot of
differences between the black civil
rights movement and the the vegan
movement I could we could talk for hours
about this and the similarities are few
the differences are humans versus
I mean right that's the fundamental
difference there but there are many look
you know did you ever hear so they we're
talking with civil rights struggle here
not the abolition of slavery but the
later struggle to get black people civil
rights do you think you could get civil
rights for black people through a
consumer boycott do you think that's an
effective method to promote black rights
in America
or in South Africa by only purchasing
products that are made it's completely
surreal its comfort there's no way you
can compare these right now do you think
you can promote veganism through
consumer boycott through refusing to buy
meat dairy and eggs do you think you can
promote black civil rights through
opening a new restaurant there's really
no comparison it's so radically wildly
different
how about through health advocacy how
about the role of PCRM and vegan gains
health diet heart attacks
you know atherosclerosis diabetes there
is really no comparison now you know and
again it's completely false it's really
a false intentionally misleading the
interpretation history to suggest that
the civil rights struggle had two sides
and either you are on the right side of
history or you want the wrong side of
history people who were alive during
that era had a lot of really difficult
discussions around the dinner table if
you had a black family maybe one of the
sons supports the Black Panthers and one
supports some kind of Democratic
moderate position and you know the other
huge factor here is Christianity how can
you ignore the fact that dr. Martin
Luther King jr. was a Christian Reverend
the role of explicitly Christian gospel
musicians and folk musicians going from
church to church from town to town
appointed so before there was a huge
crucial role for the black colleges
segregation in the United States it
deprived black people of educational
opportunities but also created a
completely parallel set of institutions
where young black people were getting
educated black high schools black
ologists says an incredibly dynamic
situation for political organization you
could have a folk band or gospel crew
Singh going from black high school to
black high school from black college to
black college from black church to black
church do vegans have anything like that
is there any in comparison to how we can
organize and stimulate activism I can't
go from vegan high school to vegan high
school in the United States there's one
there's one high school in the whole
world maybe there are two or three I've
never heard of any others heard of the
one in the United States it only has 269
students it's a tiny Hook school 200
students all the way from kindergarten
to the end of high school it's it's you
know K to 12 school so it's couple dozen
students per grade or something you know
there is no such thing as a vegan kosher
vegan University and there are a million
other reasons why this is not comparable
now if you asked me in a very broad
sense
look eyes'll are there some
circumstances you know we have this
saying in English you don't need the
bullet if you've got the ballot if you
ask me look guys well are there some
circumstances in which human beings
can't use Democratic methods of Milad
being which they have to take up the gun
and run away to the the caves and the
hills or whatever you know say the
general well we talked about it so long
ago
world war ii you know the only you know
it's it's very sad and moving me to
think about what if I was in France
during World War two what if I was in
Poland during World War two
yes there are services there is no way
to democratically Lobby the Nazis the
way to oppose the Nazis and the social
in historical context of World War two
it's very sad I think I would have had
no choice but to get a gun and take to
the hills and there I don't even think
there would have been a resistance group
for me to join you don't I mean I might
have been more or less with a gang of
bandits resisting the Nazis which there
was plenty of plenty of unorganized
resistance that way people who didn't
want to join the Communists or didn't
want to work for the British British
intelligence but who couldn't compromise
who are in a situation of resist or die
there are historical circumstances like
that we ain't enough we are not in them
as vegans organizing vegan activism we
are not in a situation like that and you
even have contrast them in terms of open
rescue if you want to do this type of
research if you believe that film
footage inside factory farms is worth
getting there are ways to get it legally
undercover journalists do it completely
league
there are drones you know these flying
cameras there people who are completely
legally using drones to get footage of
what goes on on farms and they know
exactly the legal lines involved and of
course as you know the whole pig save
movement cow save movement where you're
filming the animals before they go into
to the factory and even the exterior of
the factory
we already got plenty of footage like
they'll be real I don't think we're
really gonna discover anything new to
get a new footage but there are so many
examples of completely legal completely
effective ways even to get inside our
footage you know you can even go to the
trade shows you know there are um there
are trade shows for the meat industry
where they show you and demonstrate the
slaughterhouse machinery because they're
selling it you can get the FC I've done
this you can google and get the UM the
manuals the owner's manuals from the
machinery used to execute these animals
these are products bought and sold and
they have photographs and diagrams and
it's a little bit psychologically
disturbing everything the milking
machines the the execution machines
etcetera etcetera you know so I mean
even with something that specific I
don't see a justification for for open
rescue I mean if you actually want to
adopt these animals there are a million
legal ways to do that we're not running
out of animals to rescue legally to the
point where we have to do this illegally
so on its own and so forth now you know
right now we live in the People's
Republic of China a country that
basically has zero freedom of speech
zero right to public protests you're all
right to it's organized politically okay
in in my former statement we don't need
violence of course I'm primarily talking
about Canada the United States Western
Europe countries that have enormous
money but even here in China if I were
talking to aspiring vegan activists in
fields for which I do you think I'd
recommend anything like this do you
think I'd recommend that people spend
the rest of their lives in prison
there's so much you can do
positively in veganism that doesn't
break any laws that doesn't put anyone
in prison that doesn't destroy anyone's
property doesn't put anyone's lives in
danger there's so much you can do
and yes that partly is because it's an
effective consumer boycott movement we
can create new products we can encourage
people to refuse the virus it partly is
because we have this you know amazing
array of basically cultural methods of
advocating
for veganism as a diet as a lifestyle as
an ethical consideration ethics ecology
you know human health there are so many
headings under which we can effectively
advocate for this cause even in
communist China in 2017 that it seems
inconceivable to me that someone would
recommend resorting to direct action
everywhere methods either in terms of
disruption or in terms of open rescue so
that that sincerely is you know my
position and if you want to say to me
that you believe that wasn't the case in
the historical struggle to emancipate
slaves or the historical struggle
against the Nazis in World War two or
some other extreme example you know you
may have a point but it is there is just
no easy dotted line to leap from that
example to the situation we're in now as
yet I think it ultimately has to do with
the idea of personhood for animals I
don't believe the idea of personhood for
animals I don't believe they should be
as it is right now like pigs or animals
that are in factories we they rely on
humans you know so just freeing them
it's it's not a solution and you know uh
maybe it's gonna creep you go from one
hand one human hand to another human
hand from if you go from a factory farm
to an animal sanctuary it's it's not a
solution and it's not the future of the
vegan movement I don't I don't believe
in it and well is bleak on the emotional
level a lot of people want to believe in
mythology and I think they're looking
for a new a new myth and then veganism
and new new heroes that like the heroism
this is also part of the Batman
mentality you know I think it's very
disturbing for people to have that taken
away from them to say no this isn't
heroic this is kind of counterproductive
and immature and stupid but again you
know if you watch my channel you for
these other examples you know what
what's what's the future of mothers
against drunk driving you know what's
the future of the anti-smoking movement
how what was the success of the seatbelt
movement these are all examples of
really successful civil society
movements that didn't have to put people
in prison and didn't have to use guns
you know I mean yes you
choose an example the favors your cause
if you think the black civil rights
struggle just vindicates breaking the
law I'm okay you know black civil rights
of it vindicates folk singers going from
campus to campus
if vindicates peaceful marches as a
method of public protest that stuff were
debating here we're not debating the use
of folk music we're not debating the use
of peaceful protests on a campus or at
the lawn in front of City Hall
all those things were part of the civil
rights movement to amiyo and lobbying
governments the you know n-double-a-cp
you know they get to the acronym wrong
and gnash sorry advancement of
african-american okay sorry i thought it
best to the epidemic okay
anyway you know this this huge range of
actions big and small that militated for
that you know that kind of cultural and
and ultimately legal change sure a meal
you can you can choose to learn
different lessons from that example and
you can also choose different examples
that either you know favor one case or
favor another but there there are many
things that are bad and wrong and
misleading about this this open rescue
paradigm and i mean maybe one of them is
exactly that it locks people into you
know a hero versus villain mentality for
what's actually a very very murky
situation and I can't even say it's not
a situation I feel hopeless about at all
there's so much hope for veganism
there's such a clear and positive way
forward it's just that this isn't it
it's not going to be rescuing two pigs
here in two ends there it's gonna be
millions of people standing up and
saying hey I'm gonna do that I'm gonna
do the right thing just because it's the
right thing to do right we are at